---
layout: post
title: AutoHyde 0.1.1 Released
excerpt: If you were looking for an easy way to rebuild your Jekyll site after a push to GitHub, here it is.
published: true
category: auto-hyde
---

With the launch of this blog, I've recently come to enjoy the wonder that is "Jekyll":https://github.com/mojombo/jekyll.  For those unfamiliar, it's a dead-simple, blog-aware, static site generator built with Ruby, and is even used by GitHub for their Pages.

My only complaint has been with automating the site regeneration and deployment.  I wanted a way to easily integrate it with GitHub's post-receive hooks so that the site is pulled and regenerated on my server after any code is pushed.

AutoHyde makes that all possible.  Once installed, all you need to do is run the executable (with appropriate options) and it will start up a lightweight Sinatra server with a single route, '/auto-hyde.'  Then just point your GitHub post-receive hook at <code>http://your-server.com/auto-hyde</code> and you're ready to go.

Here is a list of the options available from the command-line:

{% highlight console %}
  $ auto-hyde -h
  Usage: auto-hyde [options]
    -e, --email EMAIL     Send email notification of failures to this email address
    -d, --jekyll-dir DIR  Location of your Jekyll project directory, defaults to this dir
    -b, --build-dir DIR   Location Jekyll will build your site to, defaults to './_site'
    -p, --port PORT       Port for Sinatra to run on, defaults to 4567
        --pygments        Turn on Pygment syntax highlighting for Jekyll, defaults to off
    -h, --help            Show this message
{% endhighlight %}

The most important options are <code>-j</code> and <code>-b</code>, your Jekyll blog directory and the directory you want the site generated in respectively.  When the route is hit, it will <code>cd</code> into your blog dir, <code>git pull</code>, and then use the <code>jekyll</code> command line to regenerate the site.

The gem is already available via Gemcutter/Rubygems, just run:

{% highlight console %}
  $ gem install auto-hyde
{% endhighlight %}
If you're interested, the code is also up on my "GitHub repo":https://github.com/gotmayonase/auto-hyde.  I must admit that I haven't tested the email functionality yet (it uses Pony), as my ISP won't allow SMTP out.  So if anyone notices a bug there, or anywhere else, please let me know.